sudoku-solver
=============
The purpose of this project was to create a sudoku solver that could solve any valid sudoku puzzle using logical solutions only.  This means that it does not use a brute force or guessing methods to come up with the solution.  It turns out that restricting this program to using logical solutions only is much more complicated than I had originally thought.  In the beginning, I assumed that this would involve only a few solution algorithms and that I would quickly complete this program.  I was very wrong.  So far, I have written code for 16 different solution algorithms, some of which have multiple variations.  A few of the algorithms are simple, but most are somewhat complicated.  Some even involve building and analyzing graphs.  This program is incomplete and I am currently taking a break from it.  At some point, I plan on getting back into it and finishing more algorithms.

A secondary purpose that I had for this project was to implement the solver in various languages.  I would use that experience as a means of comparing languages and even learning a few new ones.  This secondary purpose came with the assumption that the solver would be relatively simple to create.  I still would like to implement the solver in various languages once I complete it.

If you look at the code, you should notice that it actually does perform the guessing algorithm on each puzzle.  The results of this step are not used to come up with the solution, but are simply used to check the puzzles and the solution algorithms.  When a puzzle is loaded, it is first solved with a brute force solution to ensure that the puzzle has only one solution.  Also, the brute force solution is used to validate the logical solutions.  When a logical solution fills in a cell or removes a candidate from a cell, that step is compared with the brute force solution.  If the logical solution's step is inconsistent with the brute force solution, then an exception is thrown indicating the the logical solution is incorrect and needs to be debugged.
